Alright, in this one
we're going to put a little red dot here
that shows how many items are in the user's cart
so that they don't have to click it open
to see if the item was successfully added to their cart.
They'll be able to see a little animation
that shows that that number was updated.
So, first thing I wanna do is make a new component.
Go to your component folder, and we're going
to call it CartCount.js.
Inside of there we'll import React from 'react'.
We'll import PropTypes
from 'prop-types'.
We'll make a Dot component.
So actually we need 'styled-components',
and we'll make a Dot component,
which is a styled.div.
Inside of there, we'll give our background
of the red, color is white,
border-radius is 50%,
padding 0.5rem,
line-height 2rem,
min-width 3rem,
margin-left 1rem,
font-weight 100,
and then these two little fancy properties,
which is font-feature-settings 'tnum',
and then font-variant-numberic, set it to tabular-nums.
And what that will do is, if you're changing
from a number of items in your cart,
like one, and you go to two, some of the fonts
will change the width of the div
because one is a lot skinnier than two,
so by setting these two lines here,
as you crank up the number of items that are in that,
it's always going to define the same width to each character
regardless of if it's a fat number like two
or a skinny number like one.
Then in here let's make our class.
Say, const CartCount is equal to,
and here we'll just take in the props,
actually we'll destructure the props into props.count,
so it will take in a count.
And from that let's just return the Dot component
with the count inside of it.
That's good for now, export default CartCount
and we'll open up our Nav.js.
We'll go down to that button where we have it.
And inside of here we will put our CartCount button
and let's just pass a manual count
of a hundred items right now.
And then we also need to import
this CartCount up at the top of our Nav.js.
Here we go, we got our hundred items here.
Change that to 10.
Now the question is, how do we manually count that number?
So, you'll know up here we have our User component,
and we are getting a variable called me.
We could just manually pass the me.cart.length
right there, and that would mainly show,
but that just shows us how many items are in the cart.
If I add a bunch of these backpacks to the cart,
you'll see that we have four of 'em, plus one,
it should show us five.
So we can take the cart and count the number
of items that are inside of it.
So, we'll just say me.cart.reduce.
Our reduce is going to start with a zero.
And we're gonna take a tally of the items
and the cart item itself, and from that
we're going to return the tally
plus the cartItem.quantity.
And, I goofed this up, this is tally.
There we go, now it shows that we have five items.
If I add another item to my cart,
you see that changes to six.
Add a coat, a couple more of these.
See, the items changed to eight.
And that is actually how many items we have in there.
Good, so that works, but let's add a little bit
of animation, because when someone adds something
to cart, we should have some sort of visual cue
other than the button flipping back,
that the items was actually added to your cart.
And what I like to do is just flip this little one
over from its past to its newer value.
Now, the easiest way to transition
from one component to another component,
because essentially what's going to be happening
is, in this CartCount, we have this Dot,
and that Dot is going to have a count inside of it,
and what happens when you actually move
from a dot with a two inside of it
to a dot with a three inside of it
is gonna unmount the initial one
and remount the new one.
And we can use something called react-transition-group
to do these types of animations.
So, we'll head up to the top here,
and we'll import two things.
These are named import, so you use curly brackets.
First one is TransitionGroup.
And the second one is CSSTransition, and that's going
to come from the react-transition-group package.
Then we can go down here,
and first we're just going to return a TransitionGroup,
inside of that we want to have a CSSTransition,
and then inside of that we want to put the Dot.
Now this CSSTransition is going to take a number
of different props that will define what happens
to this Dot, because as this Dot gets unmounted
and the new one gets mounted, it's going to define
how quickly it does it and when it does it and whatnot.
So, we want to first pass the className of "count",
then we also want to pass the classNames with an S
of "count" as well, and this is going to make sense
why we do this in just a second when we hit some CSS.
Then we wanna also pass a key,
because each one is going to be unique,
it's gonna unmount the old count and remount the new count.
We need to pass a key, and we can use anything
that is unique, so why not use the count,
'cause if it's one going to two, and two going to three,
it's always going to be unique.
Then finally we need to pass a timeout,
which is how quickly they are mounted and unmounted.
So, enter, let's just say 4000,
and exit 4000, so it takes four seconds to mount
and four seconds to unmount itself.
Cannot read property exit of undefined.
I think I forgot the unmountOnExit property here.
And that's what we need, is for it
to actually remove itself once it's finished up.
So, let's show you what that is.
If you open up your DevTools and inspect that little dot,
you see that we have this cart count here.
Now when I add an item, I'm gonna click it,
keep your eyes right here.
You see that there's two items here,
there's a 10, which is the old one,
and an 11, which is the new one.
So what it's going to do is it's going to immediately
add the new one, and then kick around the old one
for four seconds, so let's look at it up here.
If I quickly add something and go back up here,
you see we have 11, and now 12,
and then after four seconds, it's going to remove 11.
And the reason why it doubles them up and shows us two
is because we might want to animate out the old one,
and animate in the new one over those four seconds
that we're actually working with.
And that's exactly what we're going
to be doing with our CSS.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go up here
and make another style component
that has all of our animation styles in it.
We'll call it AnimationStyles.
That's going to be a styled.span.
And really important, you need to make this
position: relative.
Inside of that we wanna grab a .count.
So, display: block; position: relative;
transition: all 4s; so that we're gonna do
the transition of these elements over four seconds.
And then the backface-visibility
is going to be hidden.
The reason why we do that is because
we're gonna be flipping these.
We're gonna flip out the old one
and flip in the new one, and as it flips itself over,
it's going to hide itself, so this .count
is actually going to be applied to the dot itself.
Now let's take this AnimationStyles,
and let's wrap our TransitionGroup in the AnimationStyles.
And here you see we have our span
with the AnimationStyles that has that position relative
that will wrap each of the dots,
and then inside of that, you see we have our CartCount.
Now, one interesting thing, when I add something,
let's watch down here, is the react-transition-group
is going to give it a whole bunch of class names.
So you see that it's going to count-enter,
count-enter-active, and count-exit, count-exit-active.
So it give us these class names
which we then can add CSS transition to
to make them look like they're fading or flipping
or anything off the page, and the vice versa.
So, we'll grab the .count-enter
and we will flip it on its back immediately
and then we're going to use the .count-enter-active
to flip it back to visibility.
So, we need to think about the initial state here.
The initial state of the entered dot
is going to be flipped on its back.
So we'll say, transform: rotateX
and we're going to use turns here,
so 0.5 turn.
Normally we would probably use,
like, 180 degrees.
However, there's another unit in CSS
that not a lot of people know about,
but it's turns, and one turn is a 360 degree,
and it just makes doing math much easier
because you can think in terms of,
is it a quarter turn, is it a full turn,
is it half a turn.
In this case it makes a lot more sense.
Then we'll say .count-enter-active,
and we'll transform rotateX zero.
What's gonna happen is react gives it
a class of count-enter immediately,
and then a split second later it gives it
a class of count-enter-active,
just a split second later, and then it's going to rotate
from on its back to its front,
so let's take a look at that what does it look like now?
And you see that after four seconds
it will then rotate itself.
So what we need to do now is actually set up the opposite,
which is, when I add it again,
the 14 should immediately flip itself out,
and then the 15 will flip itself in at the same time.
So watch this.
15 flips itself on in, so we go down here
and say .count-exit, top zero, position absolute,
'cause I want these to be overlapping each other,
and we're going to transform zero,
and then we'll take the .count-exit-active
and we'll give it a half turn.
Now when I add an item,
you see as the 15 flipped itself out,
the 16 flipped itself in at the exact same time.
Try it again.
They flip each other over.
Then we can take this four seconds
and let's just make it 0.4 seconds.
And we'll go down here and make this 400 milliseconds.
And now we have a bit more of a snappy animation
to show us that something has worked.
Obviously you can do any CSS that you want.
Now that you have these four classes,
you could change the color, you could scale them up,
you could scale them down.
Here, let me show you how that would work,
where we can scale four,
and scale four.
Ooh, that's kinda fun, woo!
You see how that immediately scales itself up to four
but then when it's active, it scales itself down to zero,
because we haven't put a scale on this one.
And you get a bit of a fun little boof punch goin' on there
and because we have that transition on there,
it will animate itself between A and B.
So, hopefully that is helpful.
These tend to get a little bit long in writing the CSS,
but as long as you can break it down
into these four different classes that you have,
they start to makes sense, and then you can make
these nice reusable components and use them
throughout your application.